=head1 feather.perl6.nl - Perl 6 community server

See also: L<http://feather.perl6.nl/>

Feather is server donated by Juerd, and administered by the community (mostly
moritz these days). People who need shell access on an always-on linux box can
get an account here, mostly for building and experimenting with Perl 6
compilers, but also for running IRC clients to connect to #perl6.

=head1 Virtualization

Feather is Xen host that runs three virtual machines, feather1, feather2 and
feather3. If we talk about "feather", we mostly mean feather1. Juerd has
access to feather0, the control host.

=head1 feather1

feather1 is the actual Perl 6 community server; many folks have access here,
and about 20 people can use sudo and administrate the server. There it is
considered low security, and shouldn't be used for private/sensitive
information.

It is a Debian installation, a mixture of unstable and testing.

=head2 Apache

The Apache installation on feather serves the perlcabal.org domain, most
notably L<http://perlcabal.org/syn/> the synopses.

=head1 feather2

feather2 has fewer administrators, and is considered a bit more secure than
feather1.

=head2 sudo

The following people have administrative rights on feather2: moritz, sorear,
pmichaud, diakopter, rob, jdporter (perlmonks)

=head2 Apache

The Apache instance on feather2 hosts various perl6.org subdomains; the
perl6.org A-Record points here.

=head3 www.perl6.org

Document root: /var/www/perl6.org

Source: https://github.com/perl6/perl6.org/

Managed with C<App::Mowyw>

Update from a cron job that belongs to user moritz.

=head3 faq.perl6.org

Document root: /var/www/faq.perl6.org

Sources: https://github.com/perl6/faq/

Updated fron a cron job that belongs to user moritz. Update script in
C<~moritz/update-faq.perl6.org.sh>.

=head3 doc.perl6.org

Document root: /var/www/doc.perl6.org/

Sources: https.//github.com/perl6/doc/

The HTML pages and images are generated with the C<htmlify.p6> script inside
the perl6/doc repo, and copied to feather2 with the C<sync> script (rsync).
moritz, japhb, pmichaud, raydiak and Mouq currently have permissions to do
that.

=head3 tables.perl6.org

TODO

=head1 feather3

TODO
